---
layout: post
title:  "Getting Git"
date:   2015-07-02 22:43:00
categories: git
---

When you're at the beginning of your coding journey, git can be really daunting. Believe me, I've been there. And for somebody new at programming in general, the git documentation is full of new terms and concepts all explained in jargon. This is an attempt to write the post I wish I could have read when learning git.

###High-level conceptual overview
First, there are two things:  Git and Github. Git is version control software, software that helps you manage the entire history of your code. Imagine you're writing a paper in MS Word. An hour ago you deleted a paragraph, but now you want that paragraph back. You can't just undo your changes until you get that paragraph back because you'll lose all your other award-winning work. If only you could just look through snapshots of your paper at every point you hit save. Well, with git you can do that... and more! 

Github is a website that allows you to collaborate on code using git version control. You can use git, the version control software, on your computer independent of Github. However, to collaborate and use the power of git with others, you'll need github.

###Basic terminology
* Repository - Repo for short, a repository is your project directory, or folder.
* Commit - Think of this like save or a screenshot. When you commit, you create a point in your code's history that you can later go back to. The command you'll frequently run is `git commit -m "this is my message to myself to let me know what happened with the code at this particular moment in time."` The `-m` after git commit stands for message.
* Origin - This refers to whatever code is on Github, your remote (stored online, not on your computer) reposity.
* Branch - Imagine that the history of your coding project is a straight line with points showing every time you committed. Now what if you want to experiment with a possible solution in a consequences free way? You can create a new branch of your same project, which will allow a new line to shoot out from the straight line that is your current project. This new trajectory will still have all of the files and code in your project that you've been working on up until this point in time. But anything you do in the branch will be separate from your project. Then, after you've decided that you like the changes that you made in your branch -- and that the changes did not mess up all the other work you'd done up until you branched off -- you can merge your current branch back into that original straight line.
* Master - This refers to your main branch.
* Push - This refers to pushing code from your local repository to your remote repository, i.e. from your computer up to Github.
* Pull - This refers to pulling code from your remote repository to your local repository, i.e. from Github to your computer. Pulling is a combination of fetching and merging.
* Fetch - This is when you grab code without merging it into your code.
* Merge - This is when you integrate code into your code. Sometimes conflicts arise when you try to do this. Fear not, conflicts are scary when you're first getting started, but they're not too bad.
* Staging -- Think of staging as a way of tracking files that you want and don't want. Files are `staged` before you commit them. If you see a file you don't want, you can unstage it.

###Basic Commands
* `git add` - you can do `git add .` to add ALL files for staging. If you only want to add a specific file you can do `git add path/to/my/file.file`.
* `git commit -m "this is my message to myself to let me know what happened with the code at this particular moment in time."` - this saves your code at this particular moment in time. You'll be able to go back to that commit at any point in the future.
* `git checkout name_of_branch_you_want_to_checkout`
* `git status`
* `git pull origin master`
* `git push origin master`
* `git pull origin branch_name`
* `git push origin branch_name`
* `git reset file_name`
* delete a branch `git branch -d the_local_branch_name` 
* rename the branch you're in: `git branch -m <newname>`
* rename a branch that you're not currently in: `git branch -m <oldname> <newname>`
* `git push -u origin feature_branch_name` -- push your local branch to your remote branch

###Git Goodies
git add -i interactive git adding... will prompt you to go through all changes in a file in a Q & A format
git diff --cached -- will show the diffs in what you've staged to commit

backmerge is the same as git pull origin master 