---
layout: post
title:  The problem -- and solution -- of Company Culture
date:   2015-06-30 22:43:00
categories: rubyconf culture
---


# The problem and solution of Company Culture

We all know there are tons of articles about tech's diversity problem. The speaker in this talk 

#### Reasons why some (read women) leave the industry
* lack of flexibility (especially with respect to maternity/paternity)
* the crazy hours 
* biased evaluation processes 
* sense of isolation; feeling like you don't belong

#### There's a lot of focus on tech's diversity problem...
But often times that only focuses on women. What about people of color, a diversity of gender identities, people from different socioeconomic statuses? We should think more in terms of intersectionality.

#### Where change needs to happen
What's the root cause? Company culture.
* company_culture != perks
* Be wary of 'culture fit' as it sometimes can be anti-diversity. You don't want to only find people just like you.

Have a culture where... 
* we can acknowledge when there is a problem
* we can recognize our biases -- google has free [unconscious bias training](https://www.gv.com/lib/unconscious-bias-at-work)
* we can have open, casual conversations -- if somebody says something that bothers you, say something. How to acheive this? Creating a space where this can happen. One on ones!
* we can make mistakes -- and LEARN from them
* mentoring and onboarding -- soundcloud gives people 20% time to mentor
* invest in learning
* transparency

Cultures that are bad...
* make people feel their gender
* little care for employees
* lack of transparency
* no way to make a change
* unhelpful feedback, ie 'your personality doesn't fit'




31% of people are engaged at work. How much more productive would we be if we could up that number?

* constructive feedback for men; critical for women
* abrasive, bossy, pipe down -- words that showed up in women's reviews
pulled into non-technical roles

##sense of isolation
* being the odd duck, feeling like you don't belong
* the little things add up over time
* "a thousand tiny papercuts"

##What about POC? Gender identity? Socioeconomic status?
* white feminism -- a lot of people only focused on getting WW in tech
* need INTERSECTIONALITY

Interesting White male questions and feedback
* feel like they're walking on thin ice and afraid to step through -- obviously this guy doesn't want to be part of the problem
* appreciated the inclusion of paternity leave in the convo; made him feel more engaged, like 'we're all in it together'
* "as a white man, people don't ask me about what it's like to be a white man in technology..." -- how to interact with women at a conference
